# how-to-learn-java
We gonna discuss about the anatomy of java programs the smallest building. Block in java programs are functions if function is a block of code that performs a task as a metaphor consider the buttons on the remote of your TV each button performs a task functions in programming languages are precisely the same for instance we will have
a function for sending emails to people we can have a function for converting someone's weight in pounds to kilograms we can have a function for validating users input.

In Java we start by specifying the return sort of that function some functions return a worth sort of a number at day time then on other functions don't return anything therefore the return type of this functions is void. Void may be a reserved keyword in Java. https://www.tutorialcup.com/java/files-in-java.htm
After the return type we have the name of our function so we have to give our function a proper descriptive name for example send email this name clearly identifies the aim of this function. Now after the name we have a pair of parentheses and inside these parentheses we add the parameters for this function we use these parameters to pass values to our function for example our send email function should have parameters like who is the receiver what is the subject of this email what is the content of this email.


Now after the parentheses we had a pair of curly braces{ and inside these braces we write the particular Java code.
#In Java we put the left brace on the same line where we define our function in other programming languages like C sharp it's more conventional to put the left brace on a new line but we don't do that in Java so. We put the left brace on the same line where we define our function. 

Every Java program should have at least one function and that function is called main so main is the entry point to our programs. whenever we execute a Java program the main function gets called and the code inside this function gets executed. These functions don't exist on their own they should always belong to a category.

   A category may be a container for one or more related functions basically we use these classes to arrange our code a bit like how products are organized during a supermarket during a supermarket we've various sections like vegetables, fruits cleaning products and so on each section contains related products by the same token a class in java contains related functions.
   Now every Java program should have at least one class that contains the main function can you guess the name of that class its main so this is how we define a class in Java we start with a class keyword then we give our class a correct descriptive name then we add a pair of curly braces now the functions that we define in between these curly braces belong to this class and more accurately we refer to them as methods so a method is a function that is part of a class in some programming languages like Python.
   We can have a function that exists outside of a class so we call it a function but when a function belongs to a class we refer to it as a method of that class okay now in Java of these classes and methods should have an access modifier an access modifier may be a special keyword that determines if other classes and methods in this program can access these classes and methods we have various access modifiers like public private and so on now most of the time we use the public access modifier so we put that ahead of our class and Method declarations.
   So this is often the essential structure of a Java program at a minimum we've a main class and inside this main class we have the main method now you might be curious why we have a capital m in the name of this class because in Java we use different conventions for naming our classes and our methods to call our classes we use the Pascal naming convention which basically means the primary letter of every word should be uppercase in contrast to name our methods we use the camel naming convention and that means the first letter of every word should be operate case except the why we have a capital m in the name of this class.
https://www.tutorialcup.com/java/methods-in-java.htm
